# My process for upgrading Datasette plugins with uv and OpenAI Codex CLI
**Date:** 2025-11-06
**Source:** YouTube

In this video, I'm going to demonstrate upgrading some plugins for data set uh 1.0 alpha 20 using a bunch of different coding agent tricks. So, I released this version of data set uh just a few days ago. Um it's an alpha which makes a quite a major change to a bunch of internal bits and pieces of data set and that means that there are dozens if not hundreds of plugins that need to be upgraded. So, I've got an issue here that's a tracking issue listing some of the plugins that I want to um that I want to upgrade because I know that these ones have tests that are broken on the new version. And let's just dive straight in and upgrade one. Um we'll start with uh data set checkbox. This is a very cute little plugin. All it does is it adds interactive checkboxes to columns in data set. So you and I haven't used this in so long I can't remember exactly how it works. It looks for any column with a name that starts with is or should or has and is of type integer. Okay, that sounds fun. Let's um I've got all of these checked out in my ecosystem, what's it called? Data set checkbox. So, here's the code for that. We'll pop that open in VS Code. And in most of these plugins, the real work happens in the go away client. The real work happens in the um in it file. So this file here. Um so we've got this file and really most of what this plug-in is doing is adding a big block of JavaScript and sticking that in to the data set environment. So the question is why does the where why did the tests file fail? Um interestingly I have so I have this command called tad which stands for test against data set dev. Um it's here my dear cat witch tad I can see the source code for it and all it does is it runs a UV against the current editable thing with my editable checkout of data set as well and then it runs the Python tests. So when we run that just now, we got an error that said, oh no, when we run ran tad just now, we got an error that complains about mismatch dependencies. And actually, if we go and look in the PI project toggle for this, and while I'm in here, I'm going to quickly fix this. I happen to know that these are no longer valid. Um, and look, for some reason, we decided to pin this to version 1.0 A19. So, I'm going to change it to allow for any version like that. You know what? I think this might have been a bad example to start with. I think we're done here. Um, let's test this thing anyway. So, taking a look at this. What this does is it says, "Oh, you know what? I think our test suite is incomplete on this one." Look at this. All the tests are doing are checking that the plug-in is installed. But actually, I happen to know that if the if this was to run, this would fail because the beta set allowed method has been renamed. So I think we need a new test. What that test is going to do is it is going to make sure that the extra JavaScript here has been added to the um to the to the to the to the respected page. Let's see. Well, first of all, let's see this fail with our own eyes. Um, I'm going to create myself a database. Uh, SQLite utils create table. It's going to be called demo db. It's going to have a table demo. And that table is going to have an ID integer and an is checked integer as well. I'll set the primary key to ID. There we go. Now I've got a DMO DB. Um, you know what? Let's um let's add a record to that as well. So I'm going to say SQLite 3 demo dbs schema insert into demo ID is checked values 1 comma 0 and we'll add a 2 comma 1 as well. So now we've got two records in that table. Time to run data set. Um, I'm going to start by running my default data set just to just to see this. There's our demo thing demo table. There we've got those two columns that we just added. So, that's not particularly interesting because what we really want to do is run against development data set. So, we're going to run the development version of data set which um show you what that looks like. It's witch rad. Here's that script. It's doing UV run isolated with this thing's editable with my um recent checking out data set as well. I'm pretty confident this will fail. Um I can do ra There we go. If I go here. Oh, that's database phone because I've got to database data set object has no attribute permission allowed. This is the error that I was expecting and the thing which our test suite did not protect us against. So, let's add ourselves a failing test. Um, what I can do, and you know what, I'm going to say I'm just going to say test plugin adds JavaScript. So, what I do now is I do that. Um, I can do data set.add memory database called test or let's call it demo again. Um, I need to actually create a table in there. So I can do um if I do db equals that I can do await db dot execute write table test. Oh look at that it that is the correct way to do that. That's good. Um and I do actually need to do data set await data set.invoke startup as well just to make sure data set is fully configured. Now if I go to this page here, what's this going to SL demo slash table. Oh, I'm going to do one more thing. I'm going to No, I think that'll do the job. So now here's our test, right? If that returns a 200 code, everything is working correctly. So now I'm going to tad and we got a 404. Why would we get a 404? data set has a memory database called demo that's got database called test I call it table in here that's why let's call this let's call test and this test there we go face object has no attribute permission allowed so we have an option here we could meticulously go through the upgrade guide here and it's got all sorts of details on what's changed and we could manually edit everything here, but or we could cheat. Um, I'm going to use OpenA's codeex tool here and I'm going to basically execute it and say run the command tab, look at the errors, then read that upgrade document and apply fixes and run the tests again and get them to pass. Let's see what happens if we do this. So, it's up and running. Um, the um the exit Oh, it found a test. Yep, that is indeed a failing test. That's good. It's thinking about it. Um, now it's investigating. It's reading that upgrade document. Um, it's made itself a little, it's read that. It's reviewing the plug-in files, varing to create a plug-in file. What does it mean by that? It's already got a plug-in file. Investigating the data set method signature. Analyzing permission parameters usage. Checking if it's been it's so it's actually going through here. It's going through all of the um changes that I've described in that upgrade guide and checking which ones are needed. I happen to only one is needed. It needs to change how it calls that allowed method. Okay, it's digging around in more code. What if it's made any edits yet? We can actually tell by looking in here. Um so it hasn't edited it yet. when it edits it, when that changes to be data set.allowed, which it just did. There we go. That was the edit made by the coding agent, it's checking if update row is the update row permission is available to the current actor. If it is, it'll send the JavaScript. If it isn't, it won't. So, an interesting thing is about to happen. When it runs the tests, the test will pass. There we go. Deb's used. It swapped the debate permission check for the new one. And the test pass now. That's good. And if we do the rad thing again, we no longer get an error on this page. So that's good. But we haven't actually seen the feature work yet. So we can do that here by accessing this as the root user. The root user which you get by clicking on this magic URL has got the necessary permission. And there it is. So, look, we're now updating our database by clicking these little buttons. That's the feature that was added by the plugin. That's cool. Our test doesn't actually check that that happens, though. We'd like our test to um we'd like our test to confirm that the root user does indeed get that JavaScript. And the way I'm going to do that, I'm going to do a pest.mmark.parameterize. And I'm going to say is root, false. There we go. So now this test is going to be run twice. The first time with is root set to false and the second time with is root set to true. In both cases, we're going to say data set.root enabled equals true. That's um the feature in the test suite that tells data set to allow users to do anything they like. And now we can say um that when we do the client.get we need to pass in some cookies and there is documentation beta website about how to do this. It's in the testing plugins thing. Um oh maybe I haven't documented this here yet. That's a little bit disappointing. Um, we are looking basically we need to set the DS actor cookie. Oh, it's because I'm not on the development version of the docs. Here we go. The DS actor cookie plugins testing plugins. This document has it. So, there we go. We need to set cookies equals this. In fact, what we'll do is we'll set cookies equals that. And we'll say if is root, then cookies ds actor equals that. Now we can pass cookies that. And so now we're running the test twice. Once with our root user logged in and once without. And now all we have to do is pick a representative string of this JavaScript. Let's go with this here. snippet equals that. And now we can say if is root else the search of it not in response.ext. Let's see if this works. I'm going to run black against it. Now if we do turn table test already exists that's because we are running this thing twice. I'm just say create table if not exists and our tests pass. I'm really happy with this. I think this plugin is now completely upgraded. Let's see what have we done. We've um changed that permission check. That was the right thing to do. We've made a few little changes to this um project toml and we've added we've added a proper test. I'm going to say get commit upgraded. Actually, I've got a suggestion of the commit message on here, I think. Um, there we go. Get commit that. So, data set checkbox for data set greater than 1.820. It references 2577, which is that issue that we've been working from here. We push that. That should show up down here. There it is. The reason I put the name of the project in the commit message is that if you don't, you get, and this is, I think, a GitHub bug. You get a commit message here, a commit here that doesn't actually tell you which repo it was attached to. Um, but here, because I because I put the folder name in, I get data setbox for so and so. So, that's good. Now, what we need to do is bump the is release the version. Um let's see our current version number of this is not.1 A3 number is not.1 A4 push that up and now in the GitHub repository itself which was data set checkbox just make sure those tests pass If that thing there turns green, which it should do. The last one turned green, then we're good to go. Um, create new release. I can say, well, it's called that. Going to create a tag called notbook 1 A4. Um, just before I do this, I'm going to double check that this is properly configured to ship to the correct to to to release products. It's got a a GitHub workflow which does the GX. This this bit of magic down here means that it will automatically release to Pippi when I ship release on GitHub. And then again, I've got a suggested um release notes here that I can use. Pop those upgrade from data set 1.020. That's it. It's I'm saying it's a pre-release because it's still an alpha. Um, the reason it's an alpha is it depends on my data set alpha and I always try release my plugins as alphas if their their dependencies are alphas as well. That should do it. So now I was slightly impatient. No. Um, that's interesting. I was expecting this to have fully passed by now. Okay. Well, I was slightly impatient, but if the tests fail, the release won't go out here either. So, not but one A4. The test will pass here. It's now running the deploy. The deploy installs um just does a quick Python-m build to build the wheel file. And then it does this little piece of magic with the GHAP pipi publish package which handles um like a past tokenless authentication with um Pippi. That's it. View at boom. This is the new release. Excellent. Um, I've been dropping this into editing this ticket here and adding links to the ones that I've published here. And there's one last experiment we can do. We're actually going to run we're going to run that entirely um entirely from Pippi just to make sure it works. I could do that with uvx dash with data set. What was this thing called? Data set checkbox, right? Check box. I'll add dash. Oh, iz data set checkbox d-with. I think that'll do it actually. D-root. And I'm going to give the path to my dev ecosystem that checkbox demo DB. That's because I put two hyphens there. Here we go. So, look at this. It's Oh, interesting. Um, it says pre-releases weren't enabled. Try pre-release allow. Let's try that. Pre-release allow. Should I spell that wrong? Pre-release equals allow. Here we go. So, this is installed fresh from Pippi. The plugin does indeed work. We can hit the plugins page here to see that version 0.1 A4 has been installed. So, we're done. That is the data set checkbox checkbox package upgraded to data set 1.0.
