# FastRender with Wilson Lin - building a web browser with swarms of thousands of coding agents
**Date:** 2026-01-23
**Source:** YouTube

Hey everyone, I'm joined today by Wilson Lynn um from Cursor who made headlines recently for building an entire browser that can render web pages as a solo project with the assistance of vast numbers of of coding agents. And yeah, Wilson, I'd love to hear more about like how you came to this project and and how this fits into the work that you do at Cursor. Yeah, of course. So, just by introduction, hey everyone, my name is Wilson. I'm a a product engineer at Cursor. Um this project is a research project we have to experiment with how to scale out coding agents beyond a single agent. And experiment observe their behaviors, see how we can get high throughput and perhaps investigate some of the issues that may arise from many agents collaborating such as like synchronization of head, communication, um that kind of stuff. Yeah. Uh so, Fast Render was a personal project of mine from I'd say November. It was experiment of mine to see how well front-end models like Opus 4.5 and that back then GPT-5.1 could do with much more complex difficult tasks. And in my mind, I thought, you know, a browser rendering engine is very complex and something that I have, you know, personal interest in. Um initially, the scope was even it was even smaller. It was just can you render a screenshot of web pages like a URL and um doesn't need to have JavaScript or anything, but there was sufficient complexity from just, you know, understanding spec, uh you know, CSS, HTML, implementing most of the CSS features, laying out things in a reasonably accurate way, and handling the kind of diversity of the web. And that's kind of how the Fast Render project started. Um you know, as I as the experiment progressed, I was seeing uh better and better results from single agents that were able to actually make good progress on this project. And at that point, I wanted to see, well, what's the next level? How do I push this even further? And in my mind, it was I feel like this mirrors a lot a lot of people spent the holidays, like December, poking at the these brand new models cuz what, Opus 4.5 came out in November, 5. GPT-5.2 was December. So, we were all poking at them and and I know I was trying difficult things and they would do it. And I was like, okay, what's more difficult? And just keeping on stepping up the the challenge that we're throwing at these things. And it's kind of fascinating how how well they can crunch through. But yeah, I've been basically stuck in single agent land. The the idea of pushing it out to multiple agents to take on something this ambitious is is very exciting to me. Yeah. Yeah. I totally agree. And my my project or experiment over the week over the break was to well, take these high intelligent agents and then try to really scale them. Get more throughput because engine is sufficiently complex and is sufficiently uh you know, parallel uh work that can be done to the various subsystems that it seemed like this uh it was possible. And that's how the experiment started, research team. &gt;&gt; And let's see where you've got now. So, we're looking at Fast Render right now. So, Fast Render is this window here. It's displaying its own read me on GitHub, which given how how complex GitHub has got over the past few years, I think this is a a pretty good starting point. But um what kind of things can it do? What what what sort of web pages is is Fast Render capable of rendering? Yeah. So, now definitely more towards the simple and basic, text-oriented pages. So, for example, going to Wikipedia, uh it loads pretty fast and renders pretty accurately, although, you know, there's obviously lots of subtle layout issues and stuff. Well, I notice here the the sidebar there that apparent sidebar, that looks to me like something which might be a JavaScript feature, but JavaScript isn't running. Yeah, that's right. So, JavaScript is disabled right now, which the agents made a decision as it was currently still implementing out the engine and not likely to get uh make progress towards other parts of the engine, it decided to, you know, turn it off or put it behind a feature flag, technically. Feature flag, that's I love that agents are now deciding on their own feature flag. That's that's pretty amazing. But so, this is Wikipedia and we've seen GitHub. Um can we pull up a like a cnn.com or something like that? Sure, yeah. CNN is a bit more complex page. Uh there's a lot of content and images. Um so, this will likely take a little longer to render. But let's take a look how how it goes. Yeah, breaking news and video you don't have video implemented implemented just yet, do you? That's right. No. But that's pretty considering how how heavy that that site is, that's a pretty decent starting point. Um &gt;&gt; Yes, yes. So, you said mentioned that you started out building things with it was just it was effectively the sort of Claude code model or just just trying out different coding agents and and churning away. How did you get from that to running multiple agents at once? And what what's your peak agent? Like how how how many of these things do you have running at any one time at at the highest point? Yeah. So, at the peak when we had the stable system running for 1 week continuously, there were approximately 2,000 agents running concurrently at one time and they were making I think I believe thousands of commits per hour. I mean, I saw your your GitHub repository has 30,000 commits now. So, &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; enormous quantity of enormous amount of activity going on there. How do you run 2,000 20,000 agents at one time? Are they all running in different environments? That's right. So, right at the simple approach we took with them such was to have a large machine run one of these multi-agent harnesses. So, each machine had ample resources and it would run about 300 agents concurrently on each. And this was able to scale and run reasonably well as, you know, agents spend a lot of time thinking and not just running tools. And um yeah, the whole system was not like too overloaded. And it was a simple way to kind of Can you show us what it looks like when it's running? Sure, I can give you a quick demo of the internal terminal UI we have for one of these. So, this is one of the machines that is running one of this multi-agent harness and this uh custom tool we for our custom harness. Uh And you can see the kind of activity that's going on, the continuous stream of tool calls that's happening and the set of agents, uh which there are many more that you can't see on the screen yet, but uh all have already completed um that operating under this one instruction or initial prompt, you know. And so, this right here is is that what what's the sort of overall task that this cluster of agents is working towards? So, this cluster of agents is working towards building out the CSS aspects of the browser, whether that's like parsing. You can see some of the other aspects like selector engine. Um uh those features. And this is actually because we managed to push this even further by splitting out um the browser project into multiple uh instructions or work streams and have each one run of one of these harnesses on their own machine. So, that was able to further parallelize and increase throughput. So, this is effectively the same challenge as running a giant engineering team split into modules that are handling different aspects of the implementation. That's right. Yeah. And you can imagine why we needed a very large machine because it's it's like having uh you know, 100 or 200 engineers working and compiling a browser on the same machine. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Are these are the agents constantly dealing with merge conflicts? Like how do they get their commits in in in a way that doesn't overlap each other? Yeah, that's a very good question. So, we've noticed that most um uh commits do not have merge conflicts. And the reason is the the harness itself, which I can go into more detail, uh is able to quite um effectively split out and divide the scope and task such that there is it tries to minimize the amount of like overlap of work. Uh and you know, that's also reflected in the code structure. And so, it tends to be that uh you know, uh commits will be made at various times and they don't tend to touch each other at the same time. Now, it it does happen um and you know, there's mechanisms and prompts within the system to get agents to handle those, resolve conflicts without just merely, you know, overwriting. Um but it is a it's a reasonably minimal rate and that is like one of the uh aspects of this research, which is how do you minimize these kind of things that could um become bottlenecks and uh prevent the kind of scalability of such a system. So, mainly comes down to the um it comes down to the planning, right? It's the how good is the sort of top-level agent at planning out the work such that it can be worked on independently. That's right. And our approach for this, which you know, I can go into to um to do that was we have the concept of uh planners and workers, as you can see here. Um and planners are the ones who are responsible for uh delivering and owning a specific uh slice of instruction or work. And they're able to delegate that to to sub planners. For example, the scope is very large. And so, the behavior of the emergent behavior from the system tends to be quite um effectively uh cleanly divided uh ownership and scope. So, uh there is so the root agent is responsible for delivering all of the work and all the scope of the project, for example, but it can divide into it it we can delegate and divide a specific uh feature or specific subset of the task to this plan agent. And that plan agent cannot, you know, their prompting is essentially not to kind of, you know, exceed the scope. And we found that to work quite well for um effectively dividing. How long have you spent iterating on the sort of prompts that drive the planning? Like, how much of the work that you've been doing has been around that sort of meta level of of of of figuring out how to prompt them such that they can split the work up? Yes. So, the harness itself uh this experiment on this definitely uh was a lot of uh work to experiment, to iterate um on prompting as well as the system, uh and it kind of evolved over a period of 3 weeks to see not only the subtle tweaks to the prompting, but like what uh what is the actual ideal architecture? Because there were actually there were actually previous architectures we tried that turned out to be uh quite bad at the scaling agents. And we took lessons from those and uh came up with this kind of final design that has worked pretty well for us and ran for continuously for uh long periods of times. Yeah. And so, how much of your sort of mental effort is around understanding browser rendering and how a browser should be built and what all the commands are versus how much of the time that you're spending thinking about agent coordination, having the agents do the rendering planning, and so forth? Yeah, um so, definitely it uh I would say the browser and this project were kind of uh co-developed in very symbiotic only because the browser was a very useful objective for us to uh measure and iterate the progress of the harness. But, you know, the goal was to uh iterate on and research the multi-agent harness and not the browser was just a kind of research uh uh example or uh objective. Okay. &gt;&gt; Um example uh example objective. Um I would say that uh definitely the the instructions that you feed into this harness is very important. And so, that there is that aspect of like um in some sense, the effectiveness of this uh system depends on how rigorous, how well specified, how uh well how correct your initial instructions are. Because, for example, there were actually a lot of um encoded decisions that I made that were not uh ideal for the the goal I was trying to achieve because, you know, I did not have as much experience building a browser, let's say. Um and uh the agent worked effectively, but it was working effectively towards a prompt. It was like obeying the prompt uh very uh rigorously. And so, it would, you know, uh implement out some decisions that when I but that's that in something that's like separate from &gt;&gt; I guess that's a the the joy of building a browser is literally the three words build a browser in code. A million requirements already. Like, it's pretty well established within training data from specifications and so forth what what a browser is. So, that that that's it's it's it's it's it's like the the smallest description of a project can turn into the most amount of work almost. &gt;&gt; Mhm. Um so, I noticed that in your repository you've got a bunch of Git submodules that pull in specifications for CSS and um HTML and so forth. How how important is that been? Like, how how much of the how much of the agents referring to those specifications in the work that they're doing? Yeah, it's been a very important. Um you know, I think we'll have more uh you know, technical write-up and reports on the research results later, but you know, uh it's feedback loops to the system is very important. Um you know, agents are working, as you can see, for very long periods continuously. And without the kind of guardrails and uh feedback mechanisms to know whether what it's doing is right or wrong, uh it can have a big impact on over a long period uh long rollout. Um So, specs were definitely important part. There you can I can uh you can see lots of um comments in the code base uh that AI wrote referring specifically to uh specs that uh it found in the specs uh submodules. Um you can see, you know, whether it's like high level or low level. Um there is also like other feedback mechanisms. For example, uh it used some of the um WPT uh uh test examples to uh to uh make sure that it's specified. platform tests, right? And that would be independent from the specifications, but help help prove that they were working. I remember years ago Acid3 was the the sort of but that was about 15 years ago now. So, presumably all sorts of modern alternatives to that. Yeah, and I think uh you know, I think also you can see it in the way that without the uh the the ability to have feedback mechanisms, uh it does actually tend to not um write as good code like it tends to drift the way it just does a normal agent would because uh for example, uh there's some parts of the code base that may be writing uh Mac OS code, and that can't be tested on uh a Linux machine or can't be compiled. Or if the language is more dynamic, and you know, uh of course you can run that if you had a Mac machine, but also the nice thing about Rust is you can get a lot of verification just from compilation in that. Right. &gt;&gt; It's not as available in other languages. So, there's there's lots of ways in um that you can see the impact of having uh grounding, having uh feedback loops, having things that kind of keep it aligned and uh on track. And on the subject of feedback loops, a browser is an inherently visual problem. Do are you using the the are you feeding screenshots back into the model to help it figure out what's working? Uh that's right. For in the earlier um evolution of this project, uh when it was just doing the static renderings of the screenshots, this is definitely a very uh explicit thing we taught it to do. And these models are visual models, so they do have that ability. Uh you know, we have uh like a progress indicators to tell it to uh you know, compare the diff against the uh a golden sample or &gt;&gt; Oh, are you doing are you doing are you doing are you doing visual diffs between image snapshot images? It was a one like one mechanism it had. And another one would be like just manually looking at the at the screenshot output um and seeing like When you say manually, you mean the model itself is manually &gt;&gt; Yes, sorry. The yes, the model itself is like looking at the it's literally grabbing the image and looking at it and not in some kind of automated um Which model did you end up settling Which models are doing most of the work at this point? Uh almost all the models GPT-5.2 or 5.1 before 5.2 was released. And and you found that you're so using 5.2 but not 5.2 Codex for this. That's right. Yes, um we've some initial findings was that the instructions here were kind of more expensive than merely coding and engineering. For example, how to kind of operate and interact within a a a harness or how to kind of operate autonomously and uh work without uh you know, interacting with the user or having a lot of user feedback. And these kind of instructions we found um did kind of work better with the general models and I think arguably because they're more able to understand the general instructions. Um I definitely think there's a lot more we can do to uh kind of research what's the kind of ideal uh models here and the kind of effects um the model uh pick as, yeah. And then, what's the longest you've seen this stuff run complete without any interactions from a human being? So, this system uh once you're given an instruction, there's actually no way to steer it. You can't prompt it, you can't adjust how it goes. Uh you know, the only thing you can do is stop it. So, um our longest run uh the all the all the runs are basically autonomous. We don't uh we can't uh we're not altering the trajectory while executing. Uh and so, the longest run well, you can see here we have one running for quite a while now, but the one we did uh at the time of the post was about a week, and that's uh pretty close to the the longest. Um of course, the research project itself was only about 3 weeks, so you know, we probably could have run it longer. What did FastRender look like at the beginning of the week, and what's it look like at the end of the week? Like, what did what did the swarm of agents get done in those 7 days? Uh it's a great question. So, uh I actually we we did actually post uh uh time uh uh uh screenshots from like various snapshots in history, and you could see how it kind of evolved in um um in its uh alignment in its implementation of the engine. It's getting more things correct, is getting more things accurately. Uh I can pull this up for you if you'd like. Yeah, cuz I'm thinking so, the guidance for that week really was make it better. You've you've got a browser, it's not good enough, do more, right? Right. That's right. There's a There's kind of some around just implementing more of the spec. Um you know, uh comparing against uh some of the, you know, like what you said, the visual diffs, and making sure that kind of integration is working. Um and then performance, that was another important one. Uh-huh. Um So, your planners, they're kind they're arranged effectively in a tree, right? So, &gt;&gt; That's right. root planner at the very bottom, the one that's just like, "Okay, make the browser better." And then it spins up, "Okay, you're a planner with a tree writing around performance, and you're the one that's weighted around um like uh CSS improvements, and so forth." Yeah, that's right. So, the the as you go down the all the leaf nodes, uh the tasks are more and more specific. The planners are more and more narrow scoped. Um and a interesting thing is that like the all agents with the workers of planners, when they finish, they actually do uh send the the They don't directly send the response to the parent, but they kind of provide a handoff that is the system then provides to the uh the planner that's won the task. And so, the system can actually continue to um work and kind of dynamically respond to new information or progress or even, you know, regressions and stuff. So, there's a lot of that continuous uh motion that's available. And so, what's the overall sort of scoring function? Like, what's the What What's the question that the the top-level planner is answering every now and then just to make sure that it is getting better and going in the right direction? For now, they are like all all all the planners, including the root, primarily focused on uh obeying instructions. So, the metric is really just did it successfully complete the task that it was uh instructed to do so. Um yeah. The the top level, it just assumes that it's issued the correct instructions, and that if those instructions are &gt;&gt; completed, then it's the job is done, right? That's right. So, it's it's very much like an agent that you give the prompt, and its its goal is to um kind of follow the instructions, make sure Is your Is your expectation as the sort of ultimate human in the loop that event occasionally you'll need to take a look at what's going on and say, "You know what? New top-level instruction, you need to make sure that, say, google.google.com renders correctly. This is your new goal to go after." Is that the the sort of level that you're thinking at now? Uh Yes, in some sense, that's uh correct. You can, for example, you know, you're you're seeing uh you have an instruction that's like working on uh implementing some specs, and you feel like you could continue to parallelize more work uh but in a more a prioritizing in a different way. For example, like you said, like instead of going deep on this spec area, you want to focus on getting some pages to render correctly. Mhm. Um I would say the um you know, be because these instructions this this system is uh following your instructions, most of the time, it's really about you you're observing that oh, it's doing something that uh is correct according to your instructions, but it's something that you're you didn't actually think about Right. in your instructions. So, it's like you need it's more like you need to clarify your instructions um because it's going to rigorously uh stick to whatever you say. Okay, so if you would decide that the next big goal is to be able to is is is WebGPU support or web assembly support, what would you do like what what actions would you take to get the system to start crunching on that new set of problems? So, I would first draft out a very detailed spec, and not in not so detailed that you're like dictating how exactly the code should be or uh you know, the structure, because, you know, these these are highly intelligent uh agents that there's a planning there are planners here that can, you know, handle that dynamically and perhaps make some of those decisions uh at the time of running. But I would definitely lay out uh exactly what I want to see implemented as the features, just like the corner cases, boundaries, um deliverables, what to prioritize. And I do find that uh collaborating with AI on this uh is quite helpful. Um because they can kind of cover uh things you overlooked, or they can help you kind of flesh out a bit more uh detail on some specified parts. Uh and then once you have that very detailed instruction, you know, you you want it to be detailed because it's so it there's so much capability, and it's going to run for a long time. You want to make sure it's like really on track, exactly where you want. You then just simply pass it to the system, and it just begins uh running your running the agents. So, if you again take the web assembly, would you expect to come up with specification that would say a few pages of notes and feed those in? Like, how much work would you expect to need to produce in order to get your swarm of thousands of agents tackling a problem of that scale? That's a really good question, and I think um the the browser itself perhaps is quite interesting and distinct because there's already a lot of specification out there. So, uh web assembly or, you know, CSS or HTML is is is really quite well specified. And so, I would perhaps in my plan, you know, lay out a lot of detail about how it should be engineered or should be implemented, but I would also probably, you know, like we talked about before, uh we um have the specifications inside the repo, and we say uh you know, you make sure you refer to this specification, and then this is I've So, I've been building a web assembly implementation in pure Python just to play around for the exact same kind of reasons you're doing here. And yeah, the one of the neat things about the web assembly spec is it's got a conformance suite baked into it. There's like you check out the [clears throat] spec, and it literally comes with a giant ball of test cases that you can set the agents start churning through. And yeah, I found that works incredibly well as a sort of starting point. Yeah, I agree. I think those kind of um comprehensive tests uh rigorous tests help a lot, and I think that's another one of the benefits of having picked uh the browser as a project for this uh for this experiment. Let's look at some code. Um let's let's dive in a little bit into into the It's over a million lines of Rust at this point, is that right? Uh that's right, yeah. Wow. Let's um cuz I know I've quite I've seen people raise questions online about dependencies. Um can we can we have a poke around in your in your cargo.toml and see the dependencies that the agents have chosen to to to use here? Yes. Move this. You can see some of the features it's added. Uh All right. What are the most in Ooh, what Was that an MP4? Oh, here we go. Uh Yes, there's the dependencies Got you. Yeah, and um so, some of these are kind of you just like base64, etc. you'd expect. Um what I saw I know that there's um there are dependencies in here like um Skia and uh HarfBuzz, which are sort of render And were those things that you selected or those things that the the agents found themselves? The the agents uh made the decision to select those, and I think um and you know, I think when I put a prediction, I think that's a something that what you could argue was quite reasonable because uh you know, whether they're like quite common low-level dependencies that and perhaps like other browsers also use. Yeah, like HarfBuzz is a text rendering dependency, right? It it gives you fonts and renders them on screen. And yeah, it seems it would seem like that's an entirely separate project to have your agents go and build their own font rendering from scratch. Um there are some of these that are a little bit more sort of I I I um eyebrow-raising like um CSS Parser or the markup5ever. Is that I I I I I think that's an HTML5 parsing library, is that right? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I agree. I Well, similarly, these are dependencies that, you know, I think the agent uh picked uh to use for small parts of the engine. Um and it perhaps it, you know, it should have actually uh implemented itself. And I think this is actually was you know, like kind of a reflection on how the wholeness of the instructions because I actually never included specifically that, you know, like what level of uh dependencies uh we should be implementing ourselves, what you should not be pulling in um because those are kind of things that I overlooked in my instructions. So, that that becomes almost like a um it's like that the the the planners themselves have this idea that, "Okay, I'm building out the rendering engine." But that But they did they didn't have specifically tight guideline guidelines. But they At the same time, they didn't just say, "Okay, well, I'm going to clone Firefox and and and do it that way." I guess partly you're you're you're working in Rust here, right? Right. That's right. You're more likely to And I know some of the components of the Servo project ended up in in here, right? Yeah, that's right. And you know, I after that, you know, I I would realize that you know, we've we've uh you know, adjusted the instructions to say, you know, you should be not be using these kind of dependencies. This the goal is you explicitly spell out that the goal is to kind of rewrite a lot of this stack or implement itself because that's the kind of experiment. And you know, perhaps there was an oversight in the instructions uh or they were kind of artifacts from previous evolutions of this project, you know, when it was smaller scoped and focused solely on the browser engine, which we we we kind of quickly scoped uh increased the scope, we you know, didn't um pull these out. I think also that uh you know, it didn't implement a lot of the um core significant parts like table layouts, CSS cascade, and you know, as it kind of increases scope, it will probably uh start to prioritize like bringing these other dependencies in, like bring these um the next kind of level of dependencies into the into the repo. Got you. And so So, do you have sort of confidence right now that you haven't but basically got a 30,000 commit wrapper around the Servo rendering library? Like it seems it seems pretty clear for me having like seen the thing running that it's not wrapping an existing rendering rendering framework. That's right. Yeah. Uh there's uh definitely no just there really importing the Servo library or any kind of uh browser engine. Uh and you know, when you look at when you run the browser, you can clearly see that um you know, we've noticed some of the Servo dependencies uh it pulled in in were like the kind of like you say uh like the CSS parser, things that it can um and should you know, implement itself. Um but yeah, there's there's definitely a lot of lines of code that implement a lot of uh significant parts of our layout engine. And uh you know, our our goal is to try and continue to increase that. We've already started um a new uh run of these with a lot of the dependencies completely uh uh in-house and re-written from scratch. Yeah. Got you. And so, one of the most interesting ones there's a library called Taffy, which I think is a um CSS grids and flexbox layout library. And is that that's is is that how much of the heavy lifting at the moment is being carried out by that by that dependency? So, in its current iteration, um it uh you know, as the agents work on it there, they do make changes to it. Uh it This was actually an artifact from like the very early days of the project before uh you know, it was a fully fledged browser. And it was kind of left there. Um it is implementing like a small uh it's implementing like the flex and grid layouts, but there are you know, there are other layout engines like uh inline, block, and table that this engine's doing. And you know, I think you know, you know, we're experimenting with uh you know, with removing that completely and it's uh &gt;&gt; Oh, you're going to remove Taffy out? Interesting. Cuz yeah, it's um that's such a that I I thought that was a particularly interesting dependency cuz it's not actually just used for browsers at all. I've seen Taffy show up in all sorts of other applications as a way of of of of doing these more complicated um like rendering operations. And then the the last one is JavaScript. So, I know you've got two JavaScript engines listed here at the moment. You've got um ECMAScript which is yours, and then there's QuickJS that's snuck in there as well. Do you How are those two two two two JavaScript um implementations working at the moment? Yeah, so ECMAScript was like another project that we ran you know, air coding including this kind of multi-agent system on. And it was writing you know, most of the uh a kind of a parser and type checker uh from uh from just using AI. And you know, initially this project didn't have the the parser in the project and use JavaScript. As we expanded scope to ask for JavaScript, uh you know, thinking was that uh if we task it to write a JavaScript engine from scratch, it's it's kind of already doing that in a separate project. So, we can just kind of merge these two together. So so So, the the the the ECMAScript is your separate like from the browser um a JavaScript experiment that you were doing. Yes, we used we for example we were running it to uh experiment to see if we could get to 100% uh the test 262 passing. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um and implement uh you know, a TypeScript compiler in in Rust. Uh and similarly using a lot of the kind of feedback mechanisms like the TypeScript spec and TypeScript testing. Uh yeah yeah and the QuickJS uh is a dependency that was pulled in by an agent to uh do a specific small um kind of uh project code gen which I believe for the WebIDL. And it was not like part of the main engine domain. Rather engine is using the What an interesting decision. I'd have I'd have expected it to run Node.js or Deno or something. &gt;&gt; Yes. But it [laughter] And did it So, did it pull in QuickJS which is a C library and actually like hook that up to the Rust code or was it running it completely independently? Uh it was using the Rust library of QuickJS. That's so interesting. Cuz yeah, I guess when you've got such a complex tree of of of agents, any one of them could decide, "You know what? I need to pull in QuickJS to run this piece of code here, to run this, to generate that." And that's fascinating. It feels like um one of the challenges here is a sort of an observability challenge. With all of these things going on, you need mechanisms you can use to keep track of the individual decisions that they're all making. For sure. I think observability is something that you know, we're like actively researching as far as this. It's a very much a interesting area of research. Uh how do you kind of uh get a very uh high-level assurance overview of what's going on in the system, uh perhaps ability to in fact like steer it while it is executing. Um uh just but just for an interesting thing about that decision though, because a lot of these decisions are made by these agents uh in by themselves. It I think I believe I believe I mentioned that it pulled in the QuickJS because it knew that other agents were working on the JavaScript engine. And they needed to unblock itself quickly to do the code gen. &gt;&gt; hilarious. Did it Did it actually say that, "Well, well, I'm going to have to pull in this cuz yeah, that that those slackers haven't got my And it you know, it was like eventually once that's finished, we'll just remove it and replace with the proper engine. So, that thought that was quite uh fascinating. Yeah, there's a lot of fascinating Yeah, it's how close how a team of human engineers would work. That's so interesting. So, yeah. Let's Let's finish by talking about like future So, well, firstly, the it feels to me like the real secret sauce behind all of this is the harness that you've been building that that lets you find these things out. What the Is that still purely a research project or is that something you might might become like open source or part of Cursor in the future? At this point, it's uh definitely uh an open research project. Uh you know, there's a lot of really interesting questions here. I think uh a lot of um uh questions around like how do you ensure you can get the throughput and scalability of such system uh but with the rest of the software development life cycle? Um how do you do things like reviewing code uh or ensuring kind of correctness, um do we need kind of new primitives to a new environments for these uh long-running autonomous agents? Um And there are questions around like the observability and steerability we discussed. And I think there's you know, there's a lot of interesting questions like just about um capability in general. I think it was surprising to us that like you know, definitely far from a production system and you know, not 100% correct or uh optimal code, but you know, the fact that uh a few uh hundred or thousand agents concurrently can actually work together and produce code that is like 99% compilable and runs in is in mostly aligned to the way you instructed it was it was kind of a uh very uh uh interesting result that we found [laughter] and Yeah, for me, that's the biggest story here is that a single a single engineer over the course of 4 weeks when armed with this stuff can produce over a million lines of Rust code that mostly works, right? That that's right. &gt;&gt; Very very challenging goal and then can continue to to iterate on that and redirect it and so forth. I think this is such a fascinating example of the ultimate extremes of what's possible in January of 2026 using using using this set of set of tools. And then And Servo itself, what's your what what what what are your future plans for for the browser project? Like at what point which what point do you draw a line under it and say, "You know what? We've learned all that we can. This is this is as far as we're going to go." Yeah. I think there is still some you know, even currently right now some continuous experiments around for example what we learned about dependencies that we mentioned. Um things like that like, "Well, uh could the agents work much faster uh and even more effectively uh be if we had like spent some time to reorganize the structure in the project um to be more aligned to the project cuz as I mentioned, this is kind of a uh evolution from the small static render project. And for example, you know, this project is right now a very large monolith and there's actually uh in some ways it it slows down the system because the agents have to spend a lot of time waiting for code to compile to test every single change. And that actually has an impact on the throughput even though it has you know, it's nothing to do with the harness itself. Um so, there's now interesting experiments there. I think This is um this is the microservices thing, right? That that the company that deals with microservices eventually microservices are always an organizational hack. It's like, "How can we just break the code base up so that our teams in different places can work more productively individually?" And now you're you're having to break and things but for like what's the browser equivalent of of a microservice structure so that your 2,000 agents can work more effectively at the same time. That's so interesting. Well, there's something interesting like related there too, which is you know, we we definitely wanted to optimize for throughput then because as we say like if you know, in in theory you may have like 100 agents, but if in reality there's bottlenecks, it's not really going to be scaled linearly. And so, one of the tradeoffs was Right. well, if you wanted you know, every single commit to be 100% perfect, you know, make sure it can always compile every time, that might be a kind of synchronization bottleneck. And what's interesting is that you can actually see, especially as you break up the system into these kind of more modularized aspects, you can see that errors kind of get introduced, but small errors, right? Like you do something like API change or just some syntax error, but then they kind of get fixed really quickly after a few commits. But then some, you know, some new issue may arise and then it gets fixed. So, there's this kind of like a little bit of slack in the system to allow this kind of temporary errors, so that the overall system can continue to make progress really at a really high throughput. Because if you if you required every single commit to say pass 100%, you suddenly have like oh, now I have to like my agent has to like fix some other part of the code base and make sure that can compile or I pass the test. All of this stuff maps back to large-scale software engineering with teams. Like it's basically &gt;&gt; Right, exactly. just that now you've got programmers that will turn out 100 lines of code in in a minute instead of 100 lines of code in an hour. Yeah, and and it's it's interesting because I I think you know, people may say, well, that's not correct code, but like it's it's not that like the errors are accumulating. It's just that the errors it's a stable rate of change. Oh, wow. So, rate of errors and treat treat them as temporary blips that will get ironed out. &gt;&gt; Exactly. And if you don't the errors do just keep on accumulating and compounding and everything falls apart, but that's not what's happening. &gt;&gt; Yeah, if it it was truly accumulating, you would see like a very rapid deterioration in the system. Like you would not be able to write code that could even compile in your small part of the code base. And so, it's interesting because that seems like a worthwhile tradeoff because you could add another system to this where you just occasionally take checkpoints at code and then you have an AI agent do this kind of a final quick fix up of the small bugs. And so, you have a working system that is high throughput. And that that casting release Exactly. And so, Fast Fourier itself, it seems to me that it's not really destined to become a Chrome competitor, but it is the perfect research project for trying out large-scale light coordination things against. Definitely. I think from beginning it was a kind of a research experiment. The output of this kind of experiment, we know we never intended for it to be kind of a production software or a usable, but we wanted to like observe behaviors of this harness of mobile agents to see how well they could work at scale. Yeah. It's hard to imagine that ever where like what point in in 10 years time it could still be a completely valid research target for trying out the latest generation of of agents against. Like it's the I mean, I guess the it's like if you saturate your benchmark, it right? If if you ever evolve it to the point where it's a perfect browser against all websites, it lose then it loses its value because now you need to find a new project to &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Linux kernel or something. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Yes, it's in some sense it's I think it's a really good kind of target project, not only cuz it's complex, but you know, they have really specs. Um, it's a kind of a usable thing if it works like you can just see it working and there's a thing there. But there's also like a very very long tail of things you can do, right? And it's interesting to see like how how far can I get in that long tail? Just performance optimization, right? Exactly. performance and the only job is to make this thing faster, that's fascinating and you can learn a ton from from watching them do that. Yeah, that's great that's great point. Like one of the most interesting things we've learned from it was that you know, you kind of you should explicitly instruct these things to treat the code as kind of um you know, perhaps pathological or uncertain or could do anything like arbitrary, right? So, you should have like very tight memory bounds and timeouts around when you run this code because it could be like in an unstable state that you know, a normal engineer may not need because they can just kind of see it running kind of weirdly and stop and iterate, but agents may just keep running it. And and and also that like if you have aggressive timeouts forced on this, in some sense they're actually forced to optimize code as they work. Right? So, because they cannot actually get it working and if they don't have it um able to run under the time limit. That was like another kind of interesting emergent behavior. So, I feel like we should wrap things up, but um as a closing question, what what are some of the most surprising things that you learned on this project? Like the things that that that really did like that what what what are some good sort of close closing ideas to give people that that are things you picked up on this that that surprised you along the way? &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; I definitely think the biggest thing I I guess the main thing, which is I think these agents are surprisingly capable at this point. Um, you know, we're talking about agents that run for like hours and hours, like single agents and are able to kind of hold the context and keep keep keep on the right direction and actually know when to stop and when to say they've finished. Um, and work within a very large code base um that you know, it has to kind of do kind of a surgical or specific tasks and not just like deliver a big feature on its own. Isn't it fascinating how GPT-5.2 is 400,000 token context window? Claude Opus only has 200,000 tokens and there was this assumption previously that if the code base doesn't fit in the context window, it can't do the work. You've got way more than 400,000 tokens of context going on and yeah, like you said, the they can do surgery. They can read just the little bits that they need for that problem and and and &gt;&gt; Yes. get things done that way. Yeah. That's that's right. Yeah, I think the interesting thing now is long-running agents are possible or um through context management they're quite quite simple, like just using a scratchpad for example and a or a loop that kind of continue continuation loop where we continuously nudge the agents to keep working. Simple ideas can extend these agents well beyond you know, a single context and run for many hours, thousands of turns. &gt;&gt; And are your agents doing the to-do list trick? Cuz I found certainly with Claude code, that seems to work really well. It spins up a bunch of to-dos and works through them one after after another. No, we we use a scratchpad and it's just a regular file and we don't we're not very like prescriptive about how we should use it other than that we should frequently use it and update it. And that's that's kind of main context management stuff. The role of the to-do list is actually your planners, right? Your your tree of planners is the thing that's serving that same purpose as as my to-do list in Claude might do. Yes, that's right. That's right. And I I think to-do lists are also perhaps in some ways helpful for the user to see what's going on, but in such autonomous systems where the user is not like sitting there all the time observing. You know, perhaps like a scratchpad is a more direct approach to to context, you know. Well, thank you so much for your time. This has been Wilson Lin from Cursor talking through the the the fact that you can run two between two and 20,000 agents at once and actually get get a working project after them. This is such a fascinating conversation and um yeah, I think I speak for everyone, we'd love to know more. The more the more that you can share about the insight the the the inside details of the system, the better cuz this has been absolutely fascinating. Definitely for sure. We'll we'll have follow-up write-ups and technical deep dives very soon. So. Awesome. Thank you so much. All right. Thank you so much. It was great chatting.
