# Under the hood of Canada Spends with Brendan Samek
**Date:** 2025-12-09
**Source:** YouTube

Hey everyone. We're um here today talking to Brendan Sam from Build Canada about the various sort of investive citizen journalism projects that they've been involved with. Um all of them uh using data set under the hood. And so we're going to get a tour of what they've been building, see a few of the underlying details, and generally get an idea for how this project's working out. So hi Brandon, it's great to have you here. &gt;&gt; Hi Simon, it's great to be on. Thanks for having me. So let's start by talking about Canada Spends and could you give us a sort of overview of what that project is and how it all works? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So Canada Spends is a project to help Canadians understand how governments spend their money. And so we do this in a couple of different ways. So like we post pretty graphs on Twitter. Um and then we have a website um that explores um some of the like financial state like both like financial statements um like input and output of like how a government goes like how it raises money. So like where the money actually comes from. Is it coming from like income taxes? Is it coming from uh like other kinds of taxes? uh levies like sales from whatever it does. Um and then where is it actually going? And so like Canada Spence started earlier this year um really to like have better policy discussions because I was seeing uh people and like other people on the like Build Canada and Canada Spence teams um we're seeing things like oh if we only cut this one program that ends up being a hund00 million all of our budgetary problems would be solved. And so like it's um a way to like ground the discussions that we're having in reality like where is money actually going? Is this a good use of money? Is this a bad use of money? Um and so we are trying to like collect that data for um Canadian governments and other public bodies. Um, we have like a nice little like tax visualizer that shows you based on uh tax rates in your province how much is going to different like categories. Um, like Australia does this like just on a national basis uh when you get your income tax back, which I think is great. Um, and then we go and we um also have a like collated database of all of the different individual like transactions that the Canadian government um discloses. &gt;&gt; And so what's your core sources? What are your sources of data for putting all of this together? So for this for the spending database um that data is coming from like Canada open data. So the federal government publishes um any grant that is over $25,000 um or any contract that is over $10,000. It also um different funding agencies have their own like web portals. So these are like research funding these like sherk and circ and like uh you can think of them as like the national institute for health or uh I don't know what the other like more general um funding agency in the US is um &gt;&gt; and then how about the um the the tax data the the the the data from the earlier visualization showing where the money came in from. So the um from this visualization this is coming from public accounts and so this is uh public accounts are the audited financial statement that every government is required like in Canada is required to put out every year. And so this is like actual like this is the acrual based accounting of what the government actually spent this year and is recognizing that it spent this year. Um &gt;&gt; and does this start does this start off as a CSV file somewhere? &gt;&gt; Um no. Uh usually this starts off as a PDF somewhere. Um which is annoying and why we don't have more of them. Um but I can show you something here. So we've started working to uh um automate that like going from the like PDF financial statement here. I'll pull one up. Um &gt;&gt; this is such a classic data journalism problem. the um the invaluable data locked up in horrifying PDF files problem. I'm actually just so excited about like LLMs right now for unlocking a lot of this data. And so like you end up getting this like PDF report that's like 152 pages. But uh this is some of the highest quality data that governments put out because it's audited by a third party who is like whose reputation and license is at stake. uh and they say like hey this is an accurate representation of the like government or body's finances um and so how many how many PDFs like this do you think have been ingested into the um the Canada spend system now &gt;&gt; um we have like we don't have that many um published so like we've done a bunch of manual ones uh and so those are all the ones that are published on our website right now. By the time that this is published, I don't know when it's going to be published. Um we have I don't know probably a thousand more that we have done um automatically. And so we're just verifying like data quality right now um and going through that. But then we're also like uh launching a like crowdsourcing campaign in our community to go and get every financial statement from every public body in Canada that is published online. So like because [clears throat] like every community deserves to like have accessible like views on their financial like data and like how governments spend money and like how do we know like what is possible? Like we have all of these different experiments of communities running their municipalities or like their like regions. Like how are we comparing them? like how like how do we know that like how do we benchmark them against each other like are people like doing something different like how do we surface that so that we can get like better more effective services &gt;&gt; so the Canada spends website is it making any hits to a data set instance behind the scenes to to produce any of the these these um views at the moment &gt;&gt; yeah so the spending database does so um one of the thing So these views like if you go to these individual like pages these do um I would say right now like the bigger place we use data set is like the actual like the initial like exploration like what does this data even look like? How do we start to present this? Um but this is hitting a a data set instance uh this one and so like this is live. people can go and like hit it and play with it if they want. Um, but this has a bunch of different like all of the different um databases that we have like or data sets that we've like aggregated into this one data set instance. And then we have this was an initial experiment with uh data set is can we uh this is using a plug-in uh data set uh metaarch and so this is basically takes a bunch of different tables and like aggregates them together. Uh here I'll pull it up. Um &gt;&gt; that's that's 3.6 six gigabytes of of SQLite file there with um presumably this is using SQLite's full text search feature. &gt;&gt; Yes, it is &gt;&gt; nice. &gt;&gt; Um I would say this is this one is a little slow. Um I could probably figure out how to index it better. That's actually pretty good for like exploration. Um, but you can go and see like anything that has the term wine in it. And then uh I really really love um data sets like facets. It's such a great way to um just start to understand what the data is here. So you can like say, "Oh, I want to group it by province." And then you can often see weird things like this is a Canadian data set. Like why is there something from Michigan? &gt;&gt; Huh? Michigan, right? Well, bordering Canada, right? But uh yeah, what's going on with that one? &gt;&gt; Institutes of Health giving money to the University of Michigan, I guess. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And so like it's just like an it's this great way to explore like what is in your data set in these like facets. Um cuz it like oftent [clears throat] times like when you're working with public data it's like you have like it's a little like Christmas. It's like Christmas. Um you have no idea what's inside and it's hard to get a grasp on it and these facets really help you just get oriented to the database and just like clicking through it. I love the like links that um it has. Not on this meta search one, but in this one like you can uh Oh, it's a different I have a different one open somewhere. &gt;&gt; Uh this was the initial actually version of um data set. &gt;&gt; Oh, nice. This one's got foreign keys set up. So like the recipient links through to the recipient table and so forth. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So this was actually the initial version of Canada spends before we spun up a website. We just had a Twitter account and we're trying to figure out like how do we how do we display this data better? And so you can click on um foreign keys which is just so nice to be able to go and uh look at this. And so this is published on Versell. This is using some data set um plugin to publish to different like cloud providers. It's fantastic. Um, it's really nice not having to think about like deploying things and then you get like a JSON that you can actually code against which or get a coding agent to like program against which just lowers the barrier to entry to building data apps so much. &gt;&gt; So is your um interface on Canada spends the search interface is that just JavaScript that's hitting the data set API in the background? Um this is um this is a next.js app. Uh &gt;&gt; oh. So it's doing the server side fetches of the data. &gt;&gt; This is doing a serverside fetch for like this page &gt;&gt; um because we wanted like better um like uh like faceting here. &gt;&gt; Oh yeah. No, I think this interface is a is this is a as a custom interface. This is a huge upgrade. I really like this. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So for for this particular like for the search interface because we wanted it to feel really fast and do some of this faceting um we're actually using Typesense here and so like we have like uh Typesense being populated from that like metaarch database &gt;&gt; that uh we we just saw. &gt;&gt; So let's see a little bit more code. Do you have any um examples of of of code that ingests stuff into the SQLite databases that we can take a look at? &gt;&gt; Yes. Um you can uh I'll open um my um like the worst code. Um &gt;&gt; excellent. [snorts] &gt;&gt; I am I will be I'm I'm slightly embarrassed by some of this. Um &gt;&gt; hey, if if it if it works, I think there's no reason to be embarrassed about anything. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. So, &gt;&gt; oh, can you bump the type the size up a little bit? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Um, so, uh, I am a Rails and Ruby person, uh, at heart. Come on, Ruby. Mine is going to be slow as hell for me for a hot second. Okay, I can just pinch. Okay. Um, so this is um I built a really like um hacky thing to wrap uh &gt;&gt; uh SQLite uh utils which also just fantastic. Um &gt;&gt; that's the that's the command line command line tool I've been building for SQLite. So here you've got Ruby shelling out to SQLite utils via the command line interface. That's cool. That's a really neat trick. &gt;&gt; Um, I wouldn't recommend it. Just use the command line, make a [laughter] shell script. &gt;&gt; It's also SQLite utils is available as a Python library as well, so you can build it that way. But no, I I I'm I'm delighted to see this sort of level of digital duct tape going on already. Um, and so we have um Oh, actually this is this is super accurate. So I I um I have it loading into I I scraped the data like with a bunch of shell scripts. Um and then there's different uh where are they? Um here. So we have um a bunch of JSON files which I don't actually know if I have them on my computer right now. Um there's some of them, but you have a bunch of different um CSVs, XML files. There's these like data processing scripts that goes from like a JSON to uh putting it into this like database. Um and this ends up in a SQLite database through um through this like rake task. Um I think the rake task it's been a while since I've played with this particular code. Um, but it ends up making this like Canada Spence database and then using like SQL um SQL light utils to like load the data in from uh from the like database that I previously made. Um because I wanted something like I I decided at this point that like data set was a better option uh than whatever it is that I was doing. And um like you can like use like enable like full text search so you can like search through like different uh tables like loading them like this like load from raw record. This just like uses like SQLite utils like insert and makes it this this is so [laughter] hacky. &gt;&gt; So how automated is this? Like is there a manual step required each time new data comes out or do you have any like GitHub action style automated flows now for for getting some of this data in? &gt;&gt; This is this is manual right now. Um we um on one of our other projects we had um like GitHub actions um automated flow. We were having too many like issues with um them failing because of like the government blocking like GitHub IP addresses limiting them. &gt;&gt; I've had that problem before from Cloudflare. like sites behind Cloudflare sometimes end up blocking GitHub because of default Cloudflare settings or something. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that &gt;&gt; so um we end up moving it to like just like a Rails like background job and it's on my to-do list to like automate like getting this updated as well. &gt;&gt; So, what's the um have you done any really unconventional things with the data that you're pulling out of this? like what's the most interesting sort of surprise that you've been able to to build against this stuff so far? &gt;&gt; Um most interesting surprise I would say like even just like starting to look at um I think I I can't search for nothing. Um uh light The surprising things are like just the quality of data is just awful for a lot of data sets. Um so this particular transaction it's 20 billion. Um this is a company that provides uh retail or like um office space to the federal government in Ottawa. Um, they did not spend $20 billion on this. You can see like their original like contract value was $15 million and it was then updated to be $20 million, but somehow someone added an extra like three zeros to it. &gt;&gt; Oh no. &gt;&gt; And like no one checked. Like no one checked. And so this is the largest like contract in the contracts over $10,000 database. And it's it's kind of sad and kind of ridiculous that the like data quality isn't better and it doesn't seem like people are accountable for it. There's also a bunch where the cost of it is zero. I don't know if I can see um if I can uh filter. I don't And um what'll be better? So for contract Oh, I don't want the aggregated ones. Um for contracts in the like federal government, um they can decide, hey, we don't actually want to publish how much was uh we spent on this because it would be bad for competitive reasons, which to me, I interpreted that as we got a really really bad deal. Um here contract value. &gt;&gt; That one's a negative number for for for ferrris metals. That's kind of fascinating on its own. Got the stories that you find in data in databases like this. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So like um this like you have so many that have like zero like contract value or like original value. And so, um, there's probably a code here that says like, "Oh, we're not going to do this." Um, but like you can get a lot of interesting data like was something competitive like how many people actually bid on this? &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; but no, these are all like zero dollar like contracts. That doesn't actually dollars. means we didn't actually want to publish like how much we spent here &gt;&gt; which again like this is like a story all by itself like why aren't we publishing this &gt;&gt; so early on you mentioned you touched on um using um LLMs to pull in data from PDFs I think you mentioned you using Gemini for that do you have an example of of what you're doing in that space &gt;&gt; yeah so we are um one like like I said we're trying to like um automate processing all of the like financial accounts or like financial statements for every um public body in Canada. And so one of the things that we can do is we can say um this is for renumeration data but for the um there are different like financial like statements as part of a financial account or or different parts of that statement. So the one we make um the um like pretty graph that I showed at the beginning um this graph uh this comes from like statement of operations in the surplus. It just shows like where things are coming from where things are going. And so like we have I got claude code for me to um create a Python script that processes a PDF. the PDF just gets passed directly to the um LLM. This works with both Claude and Gemini, but Gemini is cheaper. So, &gt;&gt; yeah, Gemini 2.5 Flash, which is a fantastic model from from for this kind of work from from my own experience. Yeah, like I haven't seen any like the only issue that we've seen is it misinterpreted a t like a a column in um as a like uh as a cost um probably like either due to bad prompting or like the actual data was weird. Um &gt;&gt; I saw you've got a prompt there which is uh gives it a bunch of rules and then gives an example blob of JSON for how the data should look, right? Which &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Very effective. Cool. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And so like we can then go and um validate this like they're good at generating JSON now um good at following the structure but we can uh validate this. we can go and say, "Oh, this is like because they're accounting statements, there are numbers that should add up." It's &gt;&gt; nice. So, you get that level of sort of almost a check sum on top [clears throat] of that because yeah, you also have to you have to do a bunch of spot checks and stuff anyway. But, yeah, having those those balances matching up feels like a really strong indicator that it hasn't gone too wildly um off of off the tracks with it. &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. Um yeah, this is like uh this is just like all like generated with um like claude and then tested by running it and making sure that it works. Like I don't think I've read this code before. &gt;&gt; I totally get where you're coming from. So what if people want to know more about the the project? What what where should they go and are that do you have like open source repositories and stuff people can dig around in in addition to the to the public websites? Yeah, absolutely. So, like um you should check us out at canidaspens.com. Um our uh like our organization is called BuildC Canada. We're of like thousands of people making um trying to make Canada like the most prosperous country on earth. And so we have a bunch of like open source like software projects. Uh they are all available um on our GitHub at githubcanada. Um the Canada spends one is open source. Um and some of the code that I shared is not yet open source but will be um when it is like validated and ready. But we have a bunch of other like projects as well that are trying to take public data and make it more accessible and engaging for people to like understand what governments are doing. &gt;&gt; I love this. This is like when I when I built data set the um this was one of the sort of top three use cases for it. I wanted people to be able to use it for journalism data journalism. Then that's sort of like civic engagement and making all of this open data that's out there already. if we can make that so people can actually interact with and use it that feel that's sort of core to the the principles of the project. So I'm I'm so excited to see that that Build Canada is using it in this way. &gt;&gt; Yeah. One of the one of the things that I'm most excited about data set is it lets us ship data um with an interface that is actually reasonable to use. Like the biggest problem that we have when we're building projects and like we build a bunch of projects is the data quality sucks of a lot of public data sets. And so we need to spend the time cleaning that up um understanding it like putting like good like metadata and like documenting like what is confusing about it. And that should only really need to be done once. Uh like SQLite is such a great format to like ship things because anyone can just go and download it. And data set is really really nice because you can ship it to a like you can package it to like Docker or like Versell or whatever. Pick your like host of choice and just make it available for people to use. I feel like that's one of the biggest sort of ideas behind data set is this idea that if you want to distribute data SQLite is perfect because it's multiple tables in one file. It's a single file that you download. It can do foreign keys and JSON and binary data and all of those kinds of things. I don't think there exists data that you can't stick in a SQLite database if you try just a little bit harder. And that's great. You know, it's it's great to have a universal format for distributing data that's a little bit more rich and use usable out of the box than like a JSON file or a bunch of CSVs or whatever. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And like the tools around data set are really lovely. Like SQLite utils is just fantastic to actually like populate that um SQLite database in the first place. &gt;&gt; So if anyone wants to check this out, you can take a look at um buildcanada buildcanada.com. Um, it's cannabispens.com for the uh spending data, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yep. And um Yeah. And it sounds like if you're if you're a Canadian Canadian nerd who wants to do stuff with data that makes the country better, this is a fantastic project to get involved with. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Come and join us. We have like thousands of people on Discord. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Thanks so much for this. This has been really great. I look forward to seeing all of your future projects as this continues to continues to grow. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Thanks so much, Simon.
