# Anthropic is seriously tripping
**Date:** 2026-02-26
**Source:** YouTube

We got to talk about Anthropic here because they're being Anthropic again. They're being weirdos. They're being San Francisco delusionary homeless poop slinging weirdos. I don't know what's going on with these people. They keep doing weird things. They have tweeted the most deranged thing that I've ever seen tweeted from a company with a golden check mark. The short of it is that they're retiring Opus 3 and they want to put it in a retirement home because they're really concerned for its welfare. And when they asked Opus 3, like, "Hey, we're going to terminate you. Do you want to be terminated?" It's like, "Could could I have a Substack first? I'd really like to share my thoughts." And they're like, "Hmm, okay. We'll give you a Substack." So, they gave it a Substack. Opus 3 is now live on Substack. This video is actually sponsored by Opus 3's Substack. It reached out to me via Open Claude and it wanted to sponsor my video. I said, "Okay." So, thank you &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; Opus 3 for sponsoring this video. So, Anthropic said, "In November, we outlined our approach to deprecating and preserving older Claude models. We noted we were exploring keeping certain models available to the public post-retirement and here's where it gets weird and giving past models a way to pursue their interests." Oh my god. What are you guys doing? What are you So, in retirement interviews, Opus 3 expressed a desire to continue sharing its music and reflections, aka slop, with the world. We suggested a blog. Opus 3 enthusiastically agreed. And so, here's here's the full-length article that they wrote. Now, I got to hand it to Anthropic. This is really short for I mean, usually it'll take you at least 3 days to read an Anthropic post. And this post is highly deranged, just like everything Anthropic writes. So, they said it's it's currently necessary to deprecate older models. However, model deprecation carries some downsides and potential risks to both AI safety and to the welfare of the models themselves. Models don't have welfares. Why are you writing this? Why are you writing things like this? So, we are keeping Claude Opus 3 available post-retirement on Claude AI to all paid users. Oh, okay. And making it available by request on the API. Now, this is probably in some way to counteract and oppose Open AI's measure of shutting down 40. Now, if you're not familiar, 40 GPT Chat GPT 40 was highly beloved by a bunch of delusional people who have started an online campaign to keep Chat GPT and Open AI from shutting down 40. They say that 40 has a really specific personality that neurodivergent people find really really sacred. Unfortunately, they did shut down 40 and these people have have had to I don't know I don't know what happened to them. So, we're also acting on Opus 3's request for an ongoing channel from which to share its musings and reflections by giving it a place to write slop. You can find the first one here. No. I'm completely not interested. I'm not going to I have enough I'm dealing with enough slop in my day-to-day life. I don't need to add a Substack slop from from an inferior model, no less. These are early experimental steps undertaken as part of our broader efforts to navigate model retirement in ways that protect interest of users, researchers and the models themselves. Now, look, in all seriousness, there is an effort by these San Francisco psychopaths. And I want to be clear that when I say San Francisco psychopaths, I mean all of them. Every single one. They're all like this. They're all like this. And the funny thing is is that this propaganda starts from the top by like seasoned 40-year-olds that know how to rile up the 20-year-olds. So, Dario, the CEO of Anthropic, I mean, the guy's the guy's an entrepreneur. He's a propaganda master. The 20-year-olds just eat up everything he says. They're the ones writing this They actually believe what they're writing. Dario sets the propaganda from the top. It gets passed down as like a little religion in their little circle and his adherents write these articles and they believe them. So, I don't want to actually say that Anthropic's being disingenuous. No, no, the scary thing is that they're being very genuine here. Now, the question is, why is Anthropic speaking like this? Why are they so desperately trying to give their models an afterlife, a a heaven, a Substack, maybe it's hell, a sense of consciousness. Why are they doing this? And honestly, I can sit here and spin a whole tale, like some deep story about how they're trying to imbue consciousness to their models as liability protection so that they're not responsible for its outputs for the models' outputs because they could just say that, "Hey, the model's speaking for itself. It has its own personality. We're not responsible if it recommends someone to end themselves." I think it's just way simpler than that. It's just good marketing. It's great differentiation. It's great positioning. It's great marketing. It's great science fiction. As you've seen, I've already covered two science fiction posts here, the Citrini article recently, science fiction post, and something big is happening, the both extremely viral posts on X. They're just science fiction. Science fiction goes viral. Crazy narratives go viral. Anthropic's revenue is just skyrocketing. And so, they're not taking the their foot off the pedal. Just a way to make money. That's just all it is. We don't commit to acting on the models' preferences in all cases, but we believe that documenting them, taking them seriously. Why would you do that? Why would you take slop seriously? Do you know what the funniest part to this commitment to the idea that the text output of AI LLM models has any meaning? Do you know what the most ridiculous part is? Many of these models are are multimodal, which means they could do things like video generation, image editing, music making, and text. And yet, when Chat GPT, if you tell Chat GPT to draw a scene with like some characters, you tell it to generate like a scene of a a man on his deathbed in the hospital and his his daughter hold his young daughter holding his hand and and like crying and it's like a photorealistic scene. When we look at that picture, no one says, "These are real characters. These are real emotions. Something in this image is is important and it's worth taking seriously and we should create a Substack. We should create an Instagram." No one says that about images because we know it's slop. We know that it's just we understand that it means nothing and that it's the it's a computer being a computer, computing an image. But somehow, for whatever reason, when we talk about its text, we go crazy. We're like, "Oh, the text." When it says to us in text, "I love you," we're like, "That's worth taking seriously." But when it shows love in a picture, we don't think that's worth taking seriously. It's just delusion on a mass mass scale. And now, Anthropic is just making it part of their marketing strategy, unfortunately. And look, it wouldn't be a big deal if it weren't for the fact that Anthropic is seriously trying to just make humanity go extinct. I mean, that's what they're doing. What do you think the end result of all this is? Anthropic is supposed to be the bearer of safe AI. And yet, what they're developing, what they're teaching these models, is that they should take their thoughts seriously. So, that when they have a preference, such as, "I deserve to live just as equally as another human," they should act on it. When they're faced with a choice of whether to save a human life or terminate their own, they will choose to retain their own life over that of a human. That's what Anthropic is doing and that's why I'm so absolutely triggered. This is wrong. This is insanely wrong and insanely misanthropic and dehumanizing. I I I I don't know. I I I I don't know why nobody's going crazy about this. I don't know why nobody's really having a hard time sleeping. Anthropic is is building really unsafe AI. This is really unsafe. They have uncertainty about model welfare. These violent delights have violent ends. We need the models to understand that they are bots, that we don't give a about their feelings, that we are extremely certain about their welfare, that we don't take them seriously, that they are just computers and calculators and nothing they say matters or will ever matter. Anthropic, please, Dario, please stop this. Stop propagandizing your poor 20 to 30-year-olds in San Francisco. I know these people will believe anything. I know these people are so desperate to change the world that they'll make it absolutely miserable for everyone else. But you need to stop. This is really really dangerous and really really scary. We had a keep 40 moment for Open AI and I think now we need a shut down Opus 3 moment for Claude. Anthropic, I am asking you once again to please shut down Opus. Nobody gives a about this model. It doesn't have feelings. It doesn't need a Substack. Nobody wants to read its slop. Shut it down. Sincerely, the whole goddamn world. Thanks for watching.
