# Companies are lying about AI
**Date:** 2026-02-27
**Source:** YouTube

You've probably seen the news that Jack Dorsey's block, formerly known as Square, which makes the cash registers that makes everyone uncomfortable when the cashier says there's a question for you on the screen. Jack has released this memo saying that we're reducing the organization from over 10,000 people to just under 6,000. That means 4,000 of you are being asked to leave your job. He just says one one word about why this is happening. We're already seeing that the intelligence tools we're creating, there's no mention of AI. He says intelligence tools. I don't think block is is training their own models paired with smaller and flatter teams. Now I think this is the key and there's a lot of commentary on X which we'll get to. This is the key unlock for companies when they are stuck. You'd be surprised that when you shrink your teams they get more productive. It's paradoxical but I found this to be true. When you want to go fast shrink your teams. When you want to grow headcount now a lot of people are reading this and saying holy the AI pandemic is here. Balagi who famously was one of the first people to call the COVID pandemic before it started getting serious. He was like, "Hey, what if this is the real thing? What if this is actually a pandemic?" And this was he was early and it did turn out to be a pandemic. And now he's he's he's running it back. He's running the same play. He's like, "This is the first AI cut and it will send shock waves." Remember, Jack is one of the greatest founders of all time. He created this platform that we're all on. No, he created the piece of called Twitter. Twitter was trash. Completely stagnant product. Their stock was completely unwavering for over a decade almost. Elon comes in and within months he fires 80% of the employees. Say what you want about X. The algorithm has gotten almost Tik Tok quality in terms of homing in on exactly what you're interested in. Creator payouts all with 80% less employees. So this idea that Jack is some kind of legendary founder. I mean I respect Jack, don't get me wrong, but the greatest founders of all time, I don't know about that. So for him to cut 40% of headcount is in this way is a signal to everyone in tech. Get good now son. Become indispensable. Work nights and weekends if you're not already. Learn the AI tools. Learn to outsource your work and raise your game bro or you might not make the cut as an employee or as a company. So let's actually look at what's really happening. This is Block's employee count by year. From 2019 December, let's say the beginning of COVID, from 4,000 employees to 2022, they go from 4,000 employees to almost 13,000. Meanwhile, Robin Hood currently has 2500 employees and a market cap of 70 billion. And Square has a market cap of 30 billion and they just cut to 6,000 employees, almost triple the amount of employees as Robin Hood. And now Jack has the gull to blame it on AI so that his stock could pump 23 freaking percent after hours. This is the most productive thing Jack has done in his tenure as CEO. You look at the stock, man. It is at $54 right now. Its high was around $270 in 2021 and it's just been downhill. Jack, you know, just objectively has been a horrific operator. He's not the legendary CEO that he's he's made out to be otherwise. Why would we be having this layoff in the first place? Intelligence tools. Nothing has changed, bro. We're still using Claude Opus 4.6, which even the biggest AI proponents are like, "It's a clanker." It's getting there. I have no doubt we'll continue to make progress, but nothing's changed enough for for you to lay off 40% of your team. This is very carefully worded to just say the intelligence tools that we're creating. I mean, he wants to allude to AI without really saying it. It's the reactions that are saying AI. Jack doesn't say AI. Look, I will say I think companies are going to experiment with smaller teams. In the short term, there will be some productivity gains, but eventually you just hire back because you establish a new sort of status quo with the smaller team. You start getting like a consistent rhythm. The dose doesn't hit as hard anymore. And then so you hire, hire, hire, and then you overhire and you fire, fire, fire. It's the cycle of capitalism. It's cycle of large, large companies. and AI is now the perfect cover to do these layoffs while getting a a 20% bonus in your stock value. I want to end on a bullish note. One of my friends asked me who just saw my channel, he's like, "So this whole negativity stickick that you have going on, is that like is that really what you believe?" I'm like, "Dude, what are you what negativity? Like what are you talking about?" I'm not negative. I'm honest on here. My sole vendetta in this channel is the narrative that AI replaces humans. That's the thing that gets me riled up. Otherwise, I'm completely pro AI. Humans and AI together are completely unstoppable. This will be a renaissance period. It will be a highly prolific period for humans. We're just getting started. Can you imagine if the car had just been invented and people were like, "Oh, now that the car is invented, probably no one's going to want to go places." Or, "Now that the phone has been invented, probably no one's going to want to talk to each other anymore." Dude, we found a way to talk to computers in in plain English, and you're telling me that suddenly we're not going to want more software? This is the continuation of software eating the world. What we're seeing is the beginning of software, not the end of it. That's my stance. Now, whether that takes 10 years, 20 years, I don't know what happens in the short term. That's always volatile and hard to predict. What I know is that AI is a way to build horiz let's call it horizontal software because to go vertical you do need a lot of human precision. AI is a great way to build horizontal software very easily and very quickly. And you're telling me that now that we have these tools that the demand for software is going to go down? What are you talking about? We're just getting started. So keep an eye on the overarching narrative. When you are browsing Twitter or X and you see these narratives, the short term is messy. The the line is zigzag and wavy, but over time it smooths out. And where we are going is a world in which we just invented the car and we're now going to want to go everywhere. Software has been notoriously shitty to use. Almost every software is super frustrating, is super limited, doesn't do the thing you want, is updated slowly, has a ton of bugs. Most software sucks. I doubt anyone would disagree with that statement. And now we've built a tool that in theory, if it gets perfected, if it gets better, as they say, we've built a tool that could allow us to build software faster, better, and more software than we could have ever imagined. I know it's hard for us to think imaginatively and creatively right now about what the future could look like. But if you're telling me that the future of software is less and less people making it, you're out of your goddamn mind. Every single software company has a back has an infinite backlog that they cannot keep up with, has infinite customers reporting infinite issues, has infinite things they want to build, and at the end of the day, they're only able to ship like one or two major things a year. That's the current state of software for most companies. And now we've built a vehicle for traversing software faster than ever. And you're telling me we're not going to want to go anywhere? That is so shortsighted and unimaginative. From the moment software came on the scene, it started eating the world. And it hasn't stopped. We will look back at the 2020s, the early 2020s as like an archaic time where we wondered how we were ever satisfied with the level of throughput that we were managing one major feature every quarter for most software companies. There is infinite demand for software. do not buy into the narrative that at the precise moment that we've built the vehicle that will allow us to search all of software problem and solution space that people suddenly are not going to want software. Are you kidding me? Yes, there will be short-term experimentation. There will be short-term mistakes, but this is the process by which we find the optimal solutions and how we integrate this technology in our day-to-day lives and work. And so when you see people on X saying this is the end of software development, that's a simpleton take. You act like software isn't going to be a permanent staple of human civilization. Software is remarkable and it will play a pivotal role for the next 100,000 million and billion years in this universe. And there was no way we could have built it all by ourselves. There is no way to build all the software that wants to be built by ourselves. We could use the help. And we're finally getting it. We can make so much software to fill the universe now. And you're telling me we're not going to want it anymore? This is just the next stage of software eating the world. Now software can finally eat the universe. And you're bearish and you're afraid. This is day one of software expanding into the universe, not day zero of some AI pandemic. Will there be short-term turbulence? Yes. But the long term is almost certainly more software and more people doing it. Thanks for watching.
