# Cloudflare just broke all the rules
**Date:** 2026-03-04
**Source:** YouTube

Cloudflare has just pulled off one of the most massive heists in internet history. If you've watched the Italian job, National Treasure with Nicholas Cage. It's bigger than that. They they stole the Constitution and they used AI to do it. They used Claude code to do it and they did it in a week for $1,000. And here's what they did. So Dane Nect here, I'm sorry. I should look up pronunciation for all the people I talk about. It's just you know what &gt;&gt; this name is pronounced as &gt;&gt; K. Okay. So Dane K uh is the CTO of Cloudflare and he's also an angel investor. And the funny thing about the Cloudflare people, they're like the Y Combinator people where they they they post like you would think they were idiots by by their posting patterns. That's that's all I'll say. Like they post really we retweet the weirdest things like the CEO just retweeted the CEO of Cloudflare, Matthew Prince. Okay, it looks like he un retweeted it, but somebody was like, "Holy my Cloudflare bill was like $100 out of nowhere. You got to be really careful with these Cloudflare people." And Matthew retweeted. Anyway, they're really sloppy. And I'm not like taking sides. I I honestly I I don't like necessarily have kind things to say about Versel either. So anyway, Dane Dane, stop trying to say his last name. Dne uh the great Dane announced that February 24th, 2026 was Next.js JS liberation day. Now, if if you're not familiar with Nex.js, it's a framework that allows built on top of React that allows developers to ship web applications with ease and convenience, and you you could use any cloud platform, but it's really customized to work really well on Versel's cloud platform. And Cloudflare has a hosting platform and and a lot of customers want to use Next, but it's really awkward to use Next outside of Versel. And so a lot of people have been trying to solve this problem. You have something called Open Next, which is backed by Cloudflare and Netlifi, another cloud provider, and it says that um Nex.js doesn't have a way to self-host across different platforms. There have been several attempts to fix this over the years, but it's hard to maintain because Nex.js is constantly updated. And so it's a long-standing problem, this whole Nex.js thing. And so finally Cloudflare team was like what if we steal the Nex.js we steal the whole damn thing. And so that is what they did. They rebuilt Nex.js with AI in one week. Now Steve Faulner here was the engineer who spearheaded the effort and the result they're calling V Next which is built on top of Vit. The whole thing cost $1,100 in tokens and it's four times faster. Now, keep in mind this thing is totally vibe coded. They did not look at the code whatsoever and they admit this. Not they don't actually admit it. They brag about it and they already have customers running it in production, government websites running it in production. It works really well on Cloudflare's cloud and they did this using AI. Now, here's the heist. They admit that the reason AI was able to solve this problem, you know, if you told AI, like if you and me sat there and told a cloud code, hey, build a Nex.js clone, it would really struggle to do this because it would just choke on its own vomit very, very quickly. Whereas LLMs are well known. If you recall OpenAI's breakthrough in physics that they announced like a month ago where they said that chat GPT Pro made a novel discovery in physics, it didn't in theoretical physics. It actually didn't. What they gave the LLM was validation criteria that it could automate and against. And so LLMs are really good at searching language space, but they have no idea if what they've done is right or wrong. But if you give them a validation criteria that's automated, they'll they'll find the solution eventually given enough time for most problems. And so the reason they were able to clone Next, which is a huge project, huge huge code base, costed probably tens of millions of dollars over the years to develop, dozens, if not hundreds of engineers working to build this in a very neat manner. well specified extensive documentation, massive user base and years of Stack Overflow, answers and tutorials. The API service is all over the training data. Still, that that's not enough to clone the project to to steal the whole project. What they needed was something special, and this is what it was. Next.js has an elaborate test suite. The Nex.js repo contains thousands of end-to-end tests covering every feature in edge case. Bingo. The automated criteria where if you gave a monkey a billion years of typing, would they eventually write Shakespeare? Essentially, the LLM is the monkey, but the LLM is not just a dumb monkey. It's a monkey that understands how to manipulate tokens and language and is blabbering, but blabber in a statistical probabilistic space that has patterns. It's not until you combine that probabilistic space with automated tests that you get the heist. And so, look, he has a section on how he actually built it. It doesn't matter. He talks about how he used Claude code and he's a talented engineer. He knew how Nex.js worked internally. That helped. He was able to steer the CL the agent as it worked. Not anyone could have done this. You know, it requires a skilled engineer who understands the internals of Next. Now, what he found was that Next was such a large code base because it was built through the years and had to maintain backward compatibility. And he found that sometimes there's a lot of middle layers, abstraction layers that humans build just for themselves to be able to reason about a bigger problem more. Whereas AI doesn't need this middle translation layer or abstractions. It could just sort of vomit straight towards a solution and check its work. And so he found that the codebase actually was much much smaller. What I want to get into here is not the technical details that that'll be covered by probably many other sources. What I want to get into is the theft, the heist. Now, like it's it's it's open source, so when I say heist, I'm being a little dramatic for effect, but you know, that is how the CEO of Verscell felt. He felt that this was a heist. And before I move on to the tweets, the acknowledgements are are the funniest thing. So, so the Cloudflare team just completely stole Verscell's framework. And in the acknowledgements instead of thanking Verscell for building such an awesome tool they're like thanks to the VIT team. VIT is the foundation but it wouldn't be possible without them. And it's like we also want to not thank we want to acknowledge the Nex.js team. Not so you can see just how acrimonious they are towards one another. They're not even willing to thank them for the great tool that they've built that allowed this whole thing. They just want to acknowledge them. So to start off the saga within a day the CEO of RCEL GMO RA [sighs] &gt;&gt; Roach &gt;&gt; Roouch okay GMO Roach Rouch um announced that they've identified and responsibly disclosed two critical two high two medium and one low severity vulnerability in CloudFare's vibecoded framework v-next and vibecoded is insanely accurate. That's exactly what it is. He said that due to how these bug bounty programs work, we're getting paid for the discoveries by Cloudflare. And he name calls Matthew. Um what I'm guessing is that he's he's he's essentially saying Cloudflare, hey, you better pay us for this. Like he just wants to humiliate them. These two have gone at it back and forth for years now. the funniest part of this whole saga. So, February 18th, a week before Next.js Liberation Day, Steve Faulner, the guy who was building this at Cloudflare, the vibe coding this while he was performing the heist, you know, you can imagine him there just on his laptop thinking, "Holy I can't believe I'm actually getting away with this. We're stealing Nex.js and it's because the tests are open source." and he takes like, you know, he's like drinking a Red Bull, taking a snack, and he's like, "You know what? Let me tweet something real quick." He's like, "Prediction, this year we'll see some open source projects make their test suites private, like SQite." And it wasn't until the week later that we found out why he made this prediction. It's because of the heist. And so, actually, SQite has had their tests proprietary for, I think, pre-I. And it's quite preient. You know, SQite is open source, but they they've they kept their tests closed source. And it turns out to be a somewhat genius play because the tests, you know, you can't really change the product without the tests. And so really the question is, well, why are you open source? You know, the whole point of open source is to allow for legacy and maintainability past the point that you are able to as a provider to maintain the product. And so if you have no interest in allowing that freedom, why be open source at all? And that's a question that some people are asking now. And so I want to talk about GMO's reaction here. You know, I don't have all the tweets, but you know, the overall gist is you could tell he's very like buttth hurt about this, and I don't blame him. Like I would be too, you know, especially like if Cloudflare forked Nex.js JS and put some humans on it and wrote some code and and put it back in the open source community. GMA would be applauding them. But they vibe stole the thing. Like they didn't have the decency to actually write some serious code. They did nothing that could be contributed back to the open source community. And he's like, you know, he talks about how they they shipped something here. And he's like, what service should we build next with DIP care and investment into its security, availability, and durability? clearly calling out V- Next. So, what I want to talk about is my feelings on vibe coding a framework like this, the future of neural code that no one really understands, kind of like the weights of an LLM themselves, and whether what Cloudflare did is futuristic or sloppy. But first, I want to address thought leadership by super online people like GMO, who has like 50,000 tweets. Um, before Nex.js Liberation Day, he was a thoughtful thought leader. I mean, I don't think he was as egregious as as some of the some other like AI tech bros who are like, you know, if you don't use agents, you're going to be left behind. No, he was he was giving it a little more thought. So he he he gave takes like all you know on January 8th all software will be generative and generated adjust accordingly. Looks like he did not take his own advice. On August 6, 2025 he says software engineering will be completely unrecognizable in 5 years likely less. On December 13th he says there are no limits anymore. Anyone can do anything. The only limiting factors are agency and ambition and the test suite. You can just ship things. And so that's what Cloudfare did and he got mad. The sexual tension between Verscell and Cloudfare employees must be crazy. And this Hallmark X article where GMO proposes his own sort of touring test for uh he calls it G's last exam which are thresholds that he would find impressive if AI were able to hit. And I think you know the funny part is a lot of these are actually sort of doing what V-NEX did which is take one thing and rewrite it in a sort of another language or another framework. So rewrite the TypeScript compiler in Rust and demonstrate better performance. And honestly that's kind of what Cloudflare did. They rewrote they slop wrote NexJS in the same language but it had better performance. And so I would ask GMO here to update his article to include um recreating Nex.js rewrite mpm in Rust or Go and demonstrate a significant performance improvement while retaining identical API and semantics. So I do think yeah the Cloudflare really fits in here and I don't even think this is hard. you know, as Cloudflare has demonstrated, as long as there's some kind of automated test suite that uh it pre-exists, this is really easy for an LLM to do, but probably uh they don't exist for things like this, but probably that's where you'll start. Now, here's the question that I'm battling with, which is, is what Cloudflare did the future or is it a really reckless experiment? And honestly, I'm of two opinions here. On the one hand, GMO's right. Cloudflare shipped something that they don't understand, that they don't know what's inside, that they won't be able to maintain, that they aren't able to give any security guarantees against, and that has no open-source value. On the other hand, Nex.js JS did have a a lockdown on the framework that restricted the freedoms of many other people and companies and this tool now will be a valuable utility for them that would have been impossible to do the old-fashioned way. So the AI has allowed for a new use case that would have been impossible before. And this use case is a freedom amplifying technology. I mean it's a freedom amplifying outcome. It hurts GMO because his business might take a small hit if V-Ex catches on, but it opens up the market to do things that people have been trying to do but failed because of how hard it was. On the other hand, man, I was listening to this podcast with Darkesh and Stripe with Elon Musk and Elon was talking about the difficulty of building robotics and he says, "Believe it or not, the hardest part of building a humanoid robot isn't the legs. It's not the back flips. It's not the eyes. It's not the head. It's not the balance. It's the hands. the hands are the most complex part and they just can't figure it out. And you know, I got to thinking I'm like, man, how did how did nature solve this problem? Like, how does it code up this hand essentially? And if you were to take the standard explanation, we would say that nature doesn't know how to code up a hand. But it tries things. And when it works, when it passes the test criteria, which is natural selection, it keeps that feature. And it doesn't really know what that feature is. It's just like gunk of DNA that it adds layer on layer on layer. And it's sort of like this vibecoded code base that is incomprehensible and is a mess, but it passes the tests. And because of that, it's able to build really complex systems like the hands and the brain. And the second I had that thought, I was like, "Oh god, what have I done? What have I just thought?" Because now that I understand that literally all of like life, all living organisms are essentially vibecoded. They are. And it's only when you vibe code. It's only when you try random things and put them up against automated criteria that you're able to achieve complexity that would be impossible to do by hand. And so, you know, I'm somewhat of a scientific futurist. And so, when I have these thoughts, I get really glued to them. And I'm like, "Oh the only way that humans start to build more and more complex software is to stop writing it by hand and to start emulating nature. As long as we establish automated test criteria, LLMs can do the the searching and the mutation and the finding of novel solutions to build towards complexity and scope in software that would have been impossible for us to do by hand. It's sloppy and it's seemingly risky and dangerous. But honestly, what isn't dangerous? Like cars are super dangerous. Airplanes are terrifying. But we what we do as humans is if the benefit outweighs the risk, we allow them. Cars are weapons that are traveling hundreds of miles an hour and we put our kids in them. And there is a risk, but we accept the risk because the benefit is so insanely great. I think we'll start to change our minds about the risk of vibecoded software. And I think we'll start to just see as neural software. Synthetic software. Synthetic software is software that no human has really ever seen inside of. Synthetic software, it's like a block. It's a block. It's like a puzzle piece that's designed to fit into a slot of a specific shape. And you don't care what's inside. You just care about the shape and if it fits. And so I think the future you you can't stop this force that's happening now and the future may well be synthetic code everywhere. So that's my take on the Cloudflare versel situation. On the one hand it is risky. It is sloppy. On the other hand it allowed for a use case that would have never been possible before. And on the third hand, the hands. I'm curious what you think. Is this sort of vibe coding just a temporary thing that will revert back to as soon as we see the catastrophic consequences, or will we accept the consequences if the benefit outweighs them? Thanks for watching.
