# ChatGPT Pro is lapping Einstein
**Date:** 2026-02-14
**Source:** YouTube

So, OpenAI did something that I find a little bit egregious, a little bit too much. They they tweeted this post and they wrote this article called GPT 5.2 derived a new result in theoretical physics. Now, a bunch of people on X read this just this didn't actually read the article and started freaking out. Holy the AIS are making discoveries in physics. Take that, LLM skeptics. Let me show you what people are saying about this. Some of these are OpenAI affiliated, but look at the propaganda around this. First, I want to you know what I want to do with this video is show what actually happened and show that it's a it's a cool result. It really is cool, but show you what hype looks like and what reality looks like so that you settle down and your blood pressure just lowers a little bit. And and so that's really the only thing that I do now is whenever I see stuff like this, I take the time to actually read what's happening because the headlines are always sensationalized to get you to pay attention, but then when you read the actual content, it's a little more subtle. So says, "Making progress in quantum field theory with GPT 5.2. It's happening for real. This guy is simulating a panic attack." He says, "They are not intellectually impressive." They are not intellectually oppressive. I continue to insist as I slowly shrink and transform into a corn cup. Uh, this guy says, "But what stochastic parrot?" Like, you know, mocking the the people who say that it's just a just a parrot. This guy says, "This is the worst it'll ever be, guys." GPT 5.2 is making serious progress in theoretical physics. When will AI get a Nobel Prize in physics? A new fully derived result in theoretical physics. I mean, fully derived result. They spent days trying to figure out the wording on this just to be like, how do we be as misleading as possible to say, you know, something that's technically accurate but not the whole truth. AI just did what physicists thought was impossible. No, that's not what happened. That's not what happened. The physicists uncovered something that physicists thought was impossible. And so you you just see actually it seems like I haven't bookmarked the most egregious ones, but yeah, people are like, "Holy take that, you know, AI skeptics. Oh, but they're not intelligent." Well, they're not intelligent. So, I I just want to break down really quickly um what exactly happened and sort of show you. Look, I'm not a physicist. I'm not a mathematician. I'm a software engineer, but I can read, right? Like, you know, it's it's not hard to actually whenever you see articles like this, they eventually have to tell you the truth. Like the art the title is somewhat misleading, but eventually they have to tell you what actually happened. I mean, no, no one is that shameless. I I hope that they'll just completely offiscate the truth. So, in they start by just saying things that will intimidate the hell out of you if you're not in this field. So, I you know, you'll start by reading this and and you'll be like, "Okay, this is clearly beyond my threshold and I'll just have to wait until some expert uh explains this like I'm five." And it takes a while and by that time you've already internalized all the panic and you're starting to freak out. Um, and so all of this is an extremely tough read, but here's where they tell you what actually happened. So this part is very readable. And what it shows is that the final formula was first conjectured by GPT 5.2 Pro. Now, here's the important part. The human authors worked out the amplitudes for integer n up to n= 6 by hand, but they obtained very complicated expressions. Now, GPT 5.2 Pro was able to simplify the complexity of these expressions that the humans derived. And from these simplified set of expressions, GPT was able to spot a pattern and posit a generalized formula valid for all n and not just n up to n= 6. Now, look, this is super cool. We have essentially a calculator that is somewhat sort of autonomous. It's a calculator that like doesn't need humans to keep working through and thinking through every possible possibility. And the calculator is sort of, you know, I don't want to say brute force because brute force is something very specific, but it is a sort of LLM based G GPU accelerated searching of possibility space, but not all possibility space. That would be a brute force search, but rather like, you know, a a somewhat fine-tuned possibility space that was more constrained by the human authors having given it a very specific task. And so what we have is super cool. This is awesome actually. It's a it's an autonomous calculator that is able to search in like language and mathematical space. But, you know, if you're an engineer, a software engineer, I I think a good way to to look at this is essentially look, LLM's and and Daario said as much basically in in his interview with uh Dark Cash from yesterday, anything that has a validation criteria will be solved by LLMs. And I and I agree. I mean, that's just that's you can't deny that. Anything like look, this is the same case with programming. If you give your agent an an automated test, a unit test, a playright test, an integration test, and that test has the criteria for what the feature needs to pass in order to to to be acceptable, it is 100% almost 100% given that an LLM will find a solution given enough time. And so the question is if you can codify your acceptance criteria into something that can an agent can test automatically without human intervention, it will solve that problem 10 out of 10 times given enough time. And I think that's what happened here. Essentially the physicists wrote some unit tests for n up to n equals 6. They wrote some code but the code was somewhat messy. Now, they told an internal scaffolded version of GPT 5.2. We'll get to what that can possibly mean. They told this internal version of GPT 5.2, hey, take a look at this code. Take a look at these tests. The code is messy. Can you refactor this to find and try like Dr. like do not repeat like you know find some abstract principle to unify this code in a way that fits all of N. and here's the acceptance criteria and here's how you can tell if you're right. And so the LLM spent 12 hours sort of searching, you know, constrained possibility space to find something that satisfied the criteria that humans had given it and it found it. And that's super cool and that's that's that's awesome for physics. I think that's really it's an it's a remarkable tool for physicists going forward. Um, but it it AI did not, you know, make a novel physics discovery. That's not what happened. And that's what people, if you were reading a X, you would be like, "Holy our physic is screwed. Our mathematicians screwed." No, they're actually they're going to thrive. They're going to do better than ever now because they have this tremendous new autonomous calculator that's going to help them do the thing that they didn't, you know, I I assume, you know, I haven't spoken with any physics, but I assume this is like the most boring part of the of the job and what they want to focus on that they'd rather be doing is like the novel physical physics discoveries and the creativity and the thinking and the theorizing and the hypothesizing. These are like the fun parts. And I imagine they're more than happy to give this 12 hours of reasoning that they would have probably had to spend like weeks and weeks on and and GPT was able to sort of automate it. And so this is cool, but I I think what's hap, you know, the best way to to understand this, I think honestly with with titles like this is that you have this is like Nike advertising on athletes and pretending like the shoes made them win the game when in reality, you know, shoes are important, but it was it was the skill and the experience of the athletes and and the work ethic that led to the result. And the shoes were like a tool. Shoes are not going to be playing basketball by themselves anytime soon. I mean, I I don't even you can't can you I don't know. I don't know what that means. But I I think what we're going to start to see is more and more of this sort of Nike style advertising where physicists and scientists are going to start wearing their lab coats with the logo of the of the AI lab sponsoring them. And that's going to make it seem like the the AIs are like are the ones deriving these results when in reality the humans uh in tandem with with the AIs are are doing great work. And that's awesome to see. Honestly, it is now an internal scaffolded version of GPT 5.2. What does that mean? I think what it means like a super hacked together version of GPT 5.2. And honestly, what I think it probably is is uh most likely if you're familiar with the ARK prize, and Francois here is a super cool guy to follow. Uh he's he's very honest about AGI and AI intelligence. Uh he's the co-founder of the ARC Prize, which is what a lot of AI LLM benchmarks uh you know, compare on. And he'll tell you straight up. Um let me find the the tweet. This was really, you know, insightful. Lots of folks have spread false narratives about how ARK1 was created. But here's what he says. To this day, base LLMs without test time adaptation still perform abysmally low on ARC despite a 50,000x scale up since 2020. So LLMs fundamentally have not changed. They are what they are. They can't reason through the they can't work through ARC prize problems. So here they have some testimonials and you can see there is no question. So this Nathaniel Craig professor of physics at the University of California says there's no question that dialogue between physicists and LLMs can generate fundamentally new knowledge. This is the most important sentence again that you just got to keep in mind. the people on X and I don't know what social network you're on, where you're getting your news from, but it's even worse if you're getting it from like the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, they are very much susceptible to this hype. Actually, Francois's post here was in response to Kevin Ruse's uh let me find it actually. Hold on one second. So, here it is. Kevin Ruse is the NYT New York Times tech columnist and Francois's post was in response to Kevin Ruse saying, "I don't expect AI skeptics to be moved by a single result, but it seems notable that we keep making harder tests for AI models and they keep beating them." Arc AGI came out two years ago and was declared impossible for AI, then got beaten within the year, so they made ARC AGI 2. And so, yeah, I mean, they're susceptible to the hype. Um, and so Francois was like, "No, dude. base LLMs have scaled up by 50,000x, but they they've made zero progress on the arc prize. It's not until the model the labs shifted to test time adaptation that we're finally able to solve these problems. And so the thing to keep in mind is that it's always going to be dialogue between the humans and the LLMs. That's going to be super powerful, but LLMs are not generating new knowledge. Fundamentally, in principle, they cannot. uh Lee Kranin says AI cannot in principle make novel discoveries and I I agree with that. It's just in principle. It cannot make novel discoveries. And then people are sort of quote tweeting this uh with respect to the OpenAI announcement. They're like, "How do you like them apples?" And it's like, "Dude, come on, read, you know, read the actual article and see what's actually happening. It's the humans making novel discoveries and using AI to automate the the laborious thing that humans would have eventually solved, but you know, it's like using a calculator. it'll do it in 10 seconds when it would have taken you like an hour. And I think that's just going to be so important for humans going forward. So again, please resist the narrative. Please, you know, decipher and decrypt the narrative when you see it that AI is like autonomously solving math and science. It's not it's it's doing it's doing what computers do. It's calculating It's super useful. But but this is this is a new future for humans. This is not a new like some sort of singularity or or apocalypse. This is humans getting, you know, super cool new tools and it's awesome to see, but it's no reason to to to fear or or, you know, if you're a scientist, you're a researcher, an academic, a programmer, engineer, artist, whatever. You're getting new tools. You're getting Adele, bro. Like, you know, this is all this is new. This is cause for celebration. Honestly, we're going to be able to do so much more. Humans are, you know, this is going to be a renaissance period for humans. It is not the beginning. It is not the end of humans uh doing cool This is sort of the beginning of it. So, hope that helps and thanks for watching.
